# ISO 8601

- Date and time values are ordered from the largest to smallest unit of time:

  1. year
  2. month (or week)
  3. day
  4. hour
  5. minute
  6. second
  7. and fraction of second
  
The lexicographical order of the representation thus corresponds to chronological order, except for date representations involving negative years or time offset. This allows dates to be naturally sorted.

- Each date and time value has a fixed number of digits that must be padded with leading zeros.

- Representations can be done in one of two formats
  – a basic format with a minimal number of separators
  - or an extended format with separators added to enhance human readability.

The separator used between date values (year, month, week, and day) is the hyphen, while the colon is used as the separator between time values (hours, minutes, and seconds).

- For reduced precision,any number of values may be dropped from any of the date and time representations, but in the order from the least to the most significant. For example, "2004-05" is a valid ISO 8601 date, which indicates May (the fifth month) 2004. This format will never represent the 5th day of an unspecified month in 2004.

- If necessary for a particular application, the standard supports the addition of a decimal fraction to the smallest time value in the representation.

## Time zones

Time zones in ISO 8601 are represented as local time (with the location unspecified), as UTC, or as an offset from UTC.

If the time is in UTC, add a `Z` directly after the time without a space. Z is the zone designator for the zero UTC offset.

"09:30 UTC" is therefore represented as "09:30Z" or "T0930Z".  
"14:45:15 UTC" would be "14:45:15Z" or "T144515Z".

The UTC offset is appended to the time in the same way that 'Z' was above, in the form `±[hh]:[mm]`, `±[hh][mm]`, or `±[hh]`.

Negative UTC offsets describe a time zone west, and positive UTC offsets describe a time zone at or east of UTC±00:00.

Examples:

`−05:00` for New York on standard time (`UTC−05:00`)  
`−04:00` for New York on daylight saving time (`UTC−04:00`)  
`+00:00` (but not `−00:00`) for London on standard time (`UTC±00:00`)  
`+02:00` for Cairo (`UTC+02:00`)  
`+05:30` for Mumbai (`UTC+05:30`)  
`+14:00` for Kiribati (`UTC+14:00`)  
